Database and models form up the backend of our App.

Concept of Relational Database:
A database in which differetn tables are linked with each other by any common column. 
such as student ID will be common in class grade list and library record of the university. 


Rails uses ORM Object Relational Mapper => Called ActiveRecord


=> In rails database, ID will be maintained by rails and each record will have a a scepcific ID. ID will be primary key of every rails DB table. 
 we will have to create a migration file for creating DB manually. 
 
 -- Creating migration file;'
 
 rails generate migration create_articels
 
 in db>migrate > file
 
 you will find the newly created migration and ad the fields you want in that. After you ahve added the field in it, you just need ot migrate it. 
 
 
 --To run migration file=> running it will creat a table
 rails db:migrate
 
 NOTE: Rails will  only eecute the migration file sthat have not been run already.
 
After you have run this command to migrate, you will get to see the schema code in the file right below the DB. 



It a middleman between database and and rails app. It helps to commmunicat between rails code and database.

 It enables us to use the rails code to manipulate the database.
 
 
After doing all this, ont fprget to add a new file under 
app>model wihth the name of the Article.rb if you ahve created a migration names as create_articles. 
and inside that file, please add follwing content:


class Article  < ApplicationRecord
 
 
 end
 
 
 => Command to Create Scaffold:
 
 rails generate scaffold Article title:string description:text
 scaffold will create everyhthing we need to get started with crud in a single go.
 but in case we want to create manually, we will follow other path. 
 
 
 
 USAGE OF RAILS DB:ROLLBACK 
 If you have created a migration and then you specify the data fiueld in it and migrate . After migrating and onc eall the data schema has been added then you want to ndo the last migration you have done then you use this command. 
Then you can run the migration file again. 

RECOMMENDATION:
This mehtod is not recommneded, instead you should creat new migration fields everytime.  




